[Music]
do
welcome to topcast and episode 89 of the
series this one is chapter four of the
science of canon can't by kiara maletto
and the title of the chapter today and
the title of this episode is quantum
information now i know that many people
who watch and listen
are not necessarily people with a
physics background some are but i think
they are in the minority indeed physics
itself is becoming increasingly a
minority among school students i'm not
exactly sure what the distant historical
trends were but i know that today in
australia and globally broadly speaking
in the western tradition
fewer and fewer students are electing to
take physics in these senior years as
compared to taking things like biology
or chemistry or even sport science much
less to say people taking on physics at
university as a proportion of all people
who attend university now i'm not saying
if this trend is neither good nor bad
neither here nor there the fact is that
fewer and fewer people as a proportion
of the entire population
are comfortable with physics and with
physics terminology that's one thing but
even if people do choose to go off and
do some physics at university after
having done it at school the
overwhelming majority of people who take
physics at university at the lower
undergraduate level let's say uh
engineers and chemists and
maybe people who go into medical fields
like radiology and so on they are not
predominantly physicists in the main and
even those people who take
physics the engineers and the
radiographers and so on those people can
tend to find areas of physics quite
esoteric themselves so for example
quantum theory is a typical case in
point some people who do some early
physics at undergraduate level at
university might never even come across
quantum theory to any great deep extent
anyway they're regarded as an esoteric
curiosity that only comes up at dinner
parties or discussions at the pub or
something like that but even if you're
someone like me who was determined to do
something like astrophysics and you had
to take a lot of units of quantum
physics along the way there are still
parts of the physics canon so to speak
that are esoteric and one of them is
what we're about to talk about today
which is quantum information theory now
i can't remember exactly when i first
heard about quantum information theory i
think it was when i was beginning to do
quantum physics and i thought this is
strange and weird and technical enough
and then you hear about this thing
called quantum information theory and
you think how much more wild can this
get and i remember picking up a few
texts that were around this was decades
ago just the the beginnings of quantum
information theory and i struggled to
understand what was being said and i
never really pursued it and ever since
when i've tried to investigate it
further i've always found it dry
which is a hint that i'm finding it
difficult because i'm finding it
uninteresting and that's typically
because of the way it is explained
quantum theory itself is rarely well
explained except in the work of people
like david deutsch and david wallace and
so on who actually get to the heart of
the matter about what's going on during
the experiments well quantum information
theory doesn't even bother with many of
the experiments it's just it's often
just presented as a dry mathematical
tool that's used by by people who work
in the really rarefied areas of the
theoretical part of physics so it was
never really relevant to me
training to do astronomy so the reason
why i'm saying all of this is because i
want to give a plug to the book i really
think you should get hold of the book
because this chapter in particular does
an excellent job on two fronts related
two fronts
first is that it manages to make quantum
information interesting it made me want
to keep reading to see what kiara was
going to say next because she's
presenting it in a way that i found new
and refreshing and because of this
problem being solved of how do you make
this weird subject interesting it became
easy as well and that's always a lesson
for all of us if something is
interesting then it can tend to become
more easy and i've said this before if
you ever had trouble with something at
school it's not because you were ever
incapable of doing that thing it's
because you never found it interesting
and you probably never found it
interesting because the person
presenting it wasn't making it
interesting subjects just are inherently
interesting physics for example is
inherently interesting if
you are not captured by a lecture about
how stellar evolution works and what
stars can ultimately end up as
then that lecturer is really working
hard to make things boring because
it is just naturally fascinating and i
think everything ultimately must be like
that in some way when you get into
really deep explanations of things
they're just really fascinating
inherently fascinating and kiara's
managed to find some of the inherently
fascinating parts
of
quantum information and i say you really
have to get the book because my podcast
here is no substitute for reading the
book at all and to make the point i'm
skipping the first few pages of this
particular chapter and remember i'm also
skipping whole sections of the book
whole chapters so to speak there are
these little interstitial bits in
between the chapter proper parts there
are little fictional stories which are
absolutely worth getting they're
parables of a kind they have a lesson
and the book is worth getting if only
for those so after skipping these first
few pages i'm going to pick it up where
chiara begins to describe
this ball and cups game which many
people will be familiar with uh the most
basic form which is the one that she is
describing is where there are two cups
and there is one ball and the person who
is in charge of the game
hides a ball under one of the cups and
then the person playing the game has to
guess which of the which of the cups the
ball is under and this leads to this
curious distinction between
people who
subjectively experience unpredictability
and people who subjectively experience
certainty so in that particular game of
course the person playing the game who
does not know which cup the ball is
under has a 50 50 chance of guessing
which cup the ball is under but the
person who is in charge of the game of
setting up where the ball is going to go
knows with certainty probability equal
to one if you like that the ball is
under that particular cup and not the
other so there is an asymmetry there
and this is a kind of parable of a sort
that is going to lead into to the idea
of
objective uncertainty and subjective
uncertainty so let me pick it up where
chiara begins to refine our
understanding of some otherwise mundane
terms so as i say kiara's just been
explaining how this ball and
cups game works
and i'm picking it up where she writes
quote the risk in games of chance is due
to a counterfactual property it is the
impossibility of correctly predicting
something with certainty i shall call
this property unpredictability in the
shell game of my childhood uh just by
the way um kiara refers to this ball and
cups game as the shell game
in the shell game of my childhood what
is unpredictable is the position of the
marble or the ball relative to the cup
interestingly in this case the
unpredictability is not objective it
exists only for the player from my point
of view the probability of correctly
predicting the marble's location was one
in two but someone who had the full
details perfectly knew its position the
unpredictability in this case is
therefore apparent to the player only
because he or she does not have complete
information
the person who sets up the game by
contrast sees an entirely certain
predictable and deterministic situation
it seems that just like in this game
with marbles and carps most
unpredictability in everyday life is due
to lack of information when the weather
forecast is uncertain and the weather
unpredictable as a result it is because
the information about the initial
condition of all the particles in a
given region of the atmosphere is
imperfectly known
coin tosses are unpredictable because
the initial conditions of the coin and
environment are largely unknown the
degree of unpredictability is then
quantified with probabilities the
probability of some unpredictable event
happening expresses the extent to which
one expects it given what one knows when
asked what will the weather be like
tomorrow you can reply for instance i
don't know for sure it's unpredictable
but there is a 90 probability that is
going to be sunny and so on all
unpredictable behaviors were once
supposed to be the same as in this game
not objective but tied to a specific
viewpoint
if given complete information about the
actual state of affairs there is no
unpredictability the latter appears only
if one has incomplete information
though this belief might seem
intuitively true it was wiped out by the
discovery of quantum theory in the first
half of the 20th century in quantum
theory unpredictability does not arise
just from a lack of information it is
inherent to the physical world
even when everyone has all the relevant
information it is objective end quote
all right so just uh my comments here
the thing here and if you're a viewer or
a listener to my series on the
multiverse chapter 10 of the beginning
of infinity you will know that
subjective randomness is in fact all we
have because objectively there is no
randomness so we have this subjective
feeling that what is going to happen in
the future is uncertain but god's eye
view of the multiverse what's happening
is unfolding according to the laws of
physics which are not probabilistic
they're deterministic they are
determining precisely what is happening
at every point every moment in the
universe and just an aside of course
that is not always the best explanation
of anything that happens to be happening
at any given time
knowledge creation is the most important
exception to this rule
when you want to explain what's going on
simply saying that things are determined
according to the laws of physics is not
the best relevant explanation
throwing that aside the point here is
that subjectively
we lack
knowledge of everything that's going on
that just necessarily is the case things
are uncertain from our perspective and
when i say hour i mean individually and
collectively as an entire civilization
and worse than this as kiara's just
hinted at there and as many listeners
will already be aware
the laws of physics mandate we cannot
know simultaneously to infinite
precision all of the factors that will
come to bear on whatever outcome we're
about to see in the future we'll come
back to this when we speak about
observing copying and measuring which is
part of this chapter and it's a new
window into viewing these particular
things and we'll see how those things
observing copying and measuring are
actually related okay back to the book
and chiara writes
it is rather unfortunate that quantum
theory has acquired in the collective
imagination the status of a quirky beast
that is incomprehensible but worthy of
attention because of its weird and
bizarre demeanor you may recall the
words spooky action at a distance used
by einstein to describe quantum
entanglement or the creepy idea of
locking a cat inside a box with poison
the notorious thought experiment that
schroedinger envisaged to illustrate
quantum superpositions with catchy
phrases the press has promoted the view
that quantum theory is destined to
remain a complete mystery
leaving the good old days of newtonian
physics behind when the world used to
make sense we now have to resign
ourselves to a new and alien picture of
physical reality which accords with the
experimental evidence but whose
explanation of the universe is baffling
pausing near my reflection i think
kiara's being polite polite to her
colleagues uh not to her close personal
colleagues but to the wider physics
community
i don't think we can blame only the
press here i think we can absolutely
blame a generation or two of physicists
and science communicators for
deliberately at times mystifying and
obscuring
what quantum theory is all about and i
think they have done it
consciously or not for the same reason
that priests to some extent used to do
this with holy books
it ensures that they maintain their
authority
as the experts you need to go to whose
opinion you're going to seek whose feet
you're going to sit cross-legged at and
listen to the deep wisdom because they
are the ones in possession of it
very few physicists are like for example
david and kiara and associates who speak
very clearly about these issues
some like to revel in the mystery and so
long as they revel in the mystery
people will keep looking at them as kind
of like gurus
and this is not a good thing we need to
demystify
all areas of science that we possibly
can in particular quantum theory because
it's been mired in this bad philosophy
this bad way of trying to explain what
is really going on and this fear to some
extent of trying to grapple with what
it's actually saying about reality
namely the multiverse now the
interesting thing here is that kiara is
not actually going to even mention the
multiverse in this chapter in fact she
doesn't even mention in the entire book
except in the acknowledgments
now there is a
an important reason for this that i'll
probably come back to later
and i think the reason is i haven't
talked to kiara about this i cannot
possibly speak for kiara on this point
but my guess is
that she's using an important heuristic
now it's a heuristic that i heard from
david deutsch many years ago i think
just after the publication of the fabric
of reality i think someone was
interviewing him about the fabric of
reality
and he said at the time word to the
effect that
he thought it far more important to just
explain
the best explanations that we had and to
make progress by taking those
explanations seriously taking them for
granted in a certain sense and just
building on top of them standing on the
shoulders of the giants that were those
explanations and going further and
seeing further rather than simply
fighting the old fights debating the old
debates trying to knock down all of the
bad alternatives if you want to make
progress in
genetics and biology there's no point
standing up on stage spending most of
your career and your working life
debating with creationists that's not a
good way to make progress in science so
similarly if we're quantum physicists
like yara we just take it for granted
that what quantum physics is saying
about the world is the multiverse is
true okay that we really do live in this
multiverse so we don't have to worry
about
trying to re-explain what the multiverse
is to defend the multiverse at every
single point if we're going further and
building on
what quantum theory is it's for the same
reason that anyone who writes a book
about genetics or evolutionary biology
does not have to spend multiple chapters
saying
why
evolution by natural selection is
actually true and why creationism is
actually wrong you just take it for
granted and so my guess is that kiara is
just taking for granted the reality of
the multiverse which i think is great
but just to say that
this stuff about uh the the weird catchy
phrases
have
not only been
instilled into the
scientific conversational zeitgeist so
to speak
by the press by people reporting on
science and even today some of the
physicists themselves the way in which
they
talk and publicly promotes especially
quantum theory has overturns of weird
mystical almost spiritual kind of
overtones and it has a lot of
baggage associated with it and we can do
away with all that simply by taking it
realistically and accepting the fact
there's a multiverse anyway digress
clara goes on to say quote none of this
nonsense none of this is even remotely
fair to quantum theory yes the quantum
world seems bizarre and
counter-intuitive at first but in
reality it is fascinating subtle
surprising and above all not mysterious
it can be understood
the more it is understood the more
exciting it becomes it is true though
that quantum phenomena cannot be
expressed entirely in terms of familiar
analogies
as you are about to discover there is a
genuinely new dazzling set of properties
that quantum systems have which are
conceptually far from our everyday
worldview and they are all based on a
set of simple counterfactuals which i
shall now explore incidentally quantum
phenomena are important for the progress
of our civilization because they allow
for the enhanced information processing
capabilities of quantum systems which
outclass non-quantum information media
such as those deployed by the classical
computers we use nowadays the quantum
counterfactuals are the fuel for the
next technological revolution the
universal quantum computer a universal
quantum computer is a universal computer
that is a computer that is capable of
performing every computation that is
allowed by given laws of physics as i
explained in chapter three that relies
entirely on quantum theory for its
information processing
the computers we currently use are
classical because they rely not on
quantum phenomena to perform
computations but on entirely classical
mechanisms the theoretical description
of the universal quantum computer has
been around since the 1980s and its
features are very promising on paper it
has superior computational abilities
compared with classical computers
because its elementary information units
the quantum beards can explore a much
richer set of possibilities than simple
classical bits the effect of this
richness which is entirely due to
quantum physics effects is that the
universal quantum computer can be faster
and more efficient than a classical
computer when it comes to certain
computational tasks searching a large
database factoring a number etc what is
important here for you to have in mind
is that the leap in possibilities that a
universal quantum computer would bring
about is analogous to that brought about
by the introduction of the classical
computers in the first place
it will make an entirely new class of
technological improvements possible in
the realm of information processing alas
the actual realization of a universal
quantum computer has proved to be very
challenging in practice
this enterprise has engaged some of the
finest minds among physicists engineers
and material scientists numerous i.t
companies such as google ibm and
microsoft and startups as well are now
trying to race towards the first viable
prototype of this machine but we are
still quite a way away even if we are
definitely getting closer
pause there my reflection okay so this
thing about being quite a ways away
it's been said for decades now
and
we hope that we're getting closer and it
seems as though sometimes we're getting
closer and then it seems like we're not
we often get these announcements
especially by the very companies
mentioned there by kiara
google has announced more than once over
the decades now that they've got a
functioning quantum computer of a kind
i don't buy it
and the reason i don't buy it well
maybe they have some weird technology
they're hiding from everyone i think
we'd know i think there'd be an actual
leak from the company i mean there would
be
high financial incentives for anyone
within that company working on such a
technology to actually take the
information somewhere else and sell it
at a really high price but that's not
happening okay once we have a quantum
computer in one place what i'm saying is
we'll end up having a quantum computer
in lots of places simultaneously or very
the word will quickly get out that's the
first thing the second thing is as i've
mentioned in previous episodes i think
the multiverse chapter in particular
of the beginning of infinity
the engineering difficulties with
quantum computation
uh something i'm a little familiar with
i'm not i'm only a lay person in this
i'm a lay person who takes a special
interest but i'm i'm definitely not an
expert
but because of my special interest i've
visited one of my local universities who
actually have a center for quantum
computation the university of new south
wales and i've had some discussions with
some of the people there including
the person that runs the entire place
and
their quantum computer the best they can
do at the moment
is one or two qubits
you hear you know when when places like
google make these announcements like oh
we've got heaps and heaps of cubes
hundreds of qubits or something or other
and now and again you see press releases
about this i think it's all a scam i
think it's all a scam because of the way
in which
i understand at least some of the
hardware works i've heard tell that
there are alternatives to the way in
which you could have this quantum
computation happening
i don't fully get these alternatives but
the way in which i've heard these
quantum computers work at least at the
university of new south wales i think
they use
ion trapping they use phosphorous type
atoms and they have to keep these things
very very cold they have to keep it cold
so that the information doesn't leak out
so to speak so that the and we're going
to come to this in the chapter actually
that we're reading right now so that the
the the atoms remain entangled so they
can do the job of computation
entanglement says technical term where
the two atoms are kind of behaving like
the one system rather than as two
independent things so that's one thing
and the only way to ensure this
entanglement
remains in place at least in this
particular setup is to have them not
moving around very much once they start
to move around they decohere dick i hear
a fancy name for lose the information
they become entangled with the rest of
the environment but you don't want them
entangled with the rest the environment
you want these two atoms these two
particles to only be entangled with each
other in order to do the job of
computation we can rather think of it
like this is a poor analogy but you can
rather think of it like
the electricity inside of the computer
is something that you want to keep
inside of the computer once the
electricity starts to get into the
computer from the outside you've got
serious problems or once the electricity
that's in your computer starts leaking
to the outside world you've got a
problem okay it's a very delicate
mechanism you don't want
additional electricity additional
electrons
wandering through the circuits of your
computer okay so in order to maintain
the entanglement of the particles in the
quantum computer at least at the
university of new south wales and i
think this is the way many different
kinds of
races towards an actual quantum computer
are working is you have to get these
things very cold
and you need to get down to near
absolute zero and i've told this story
before and at unsw what they do
is they use liquid helium which gets you
down to about -270 something like that
but that's still not cold enough and so
what they do is they use evaporative
cooling and so they have this isotope of
helium helium-3 the light isotope of
helium and they use that to evaporate
away from the helium-4
in which the
atoms of phosphorus are being bathed and
as that evaporative cooling happens you
can actually get down to minus 272
points something or other so it's very
very close to absolute zero and they
need to get down to that so that the
things remain entangled with one another
now an interesting question once i said
to them where do you get helium-3 from
how do you go about refining that and
the curious thing was i don't know if
they were supposed to tell me this or
not but they did tell me maybe it's
public knowledge they said that well the
american army of all people
sponsors their project sponsors their
race towards building this first quantum
computer of all the people the american
army and i said the american army like
why why the american army well it's a
bit of a deal right the project that
unsw the university of new south wales
is running requires the helium-3 and
guess what the american army being the
military would like to ensure that they
have access to the first quantum
computer that's built so i'm sure
they're sponsoring a lot of such
projects okay america for defense
reasons wants to ensure they're not left
behind and so they are supporting lots
and lots of people financially in order
to build a quantum computer so there's
definitely big money in it but the way
in which the american army
gets the helium-3
is from the radioactive decomposition of
uranium i think it is might be plutonium
whatever
one of the radioactive materials inside
of their nuclear bombs so their nuclear
bombs are irradiating this stuff and
they collect it in big balloons and then
they send it to people like the
university of new south wales to do
research with in quantum computation so
that's a curious way in which nuclear
bombs are assisting with research
towards quantum computers anyways for
even more details about that again my
multiverse series has some more details
and i'm picking it up where chiara says
of herself and i would also agree with
this quote
i belong to the cohort of people who
look at technological developments in
ore with optimism and high expectations
but are ultimately more interested in
the foundations of the theories that
allow such technology to exist
what is it precisely about quantum media
that makes them capable of supporting
such super efficient quantum information
processing what can one learn by looking
at the foundations if the technology is
already pushing ahead
in fact by digging into the foundations
of quantum theory we stumble upon a
surprising fact all properties of
quantum systems which are crucial for
the universal quantum computer and the
related quantum technologies rests on a
few elementary counterfactual properties
in chapter three i explained that
information media are systems with
attributes that can be flipped and
copied
quantum systems have these
canter-factual properties and therefore
are information media in their sense but
they have more counterfactual properties
making them so much more powerful to see
what these properties are and understand
why quantum systems are a more powerful
kind of information medium i shall
invite you to look again at the game of
chance with cups now through the lens of
information theory the two cups together
with the marble are using the
terminology of chapter 3 and information
medium they can contain a bit of
information encoded in the position of
the marble as you can see in the figure
on screen from page 111 of the book when
the marble is under the cup on the right
it encodes the value zero
when it is under the cup on the left it
encodes the value 1. you can imagine a
standard procedure to set up the game
first toss a coin if the coin shows
heads put the marble under the cup on
the left if it shows tails put it under
the one on the right at this point for
the player the bit is perfectly
randomized and maximally unpredictable
because it could hold the value zero or
one the marble could be either under the
cup on the right or that on the left
each with probability a half for the
person who sets up the game however the
bit has a definite value either a zero
or a one they know where the marble is
now imagine setting up the game with
systems that behave according to quantum
theory not simple information media but
quantum information media
what would change in the game
our quantum game involves a photon a
quantum particle of light instead of the
marble and two possible paths instead of
the cups
pausing there my reflection
as you might guess again if you've read
the beginning of infinity if you've
listened to my podcasts on the beginning
infinity what we are about to describe
is the mark zender interferometer what i
like to remind people of
as we're discussing something like this
is that these are physical objects these
are really existing physical objects
they're not abstract ideals and because
they're really existing physical objects
you just have to accept the fact they're
obeying
the laws of quantum theory they might
violate your common sense
but so much for your common sense
you might think you know how a mirror
works or a crystal works or how light
bouncing off of a surface works so to
speak
and you could be completely wrong about
all of it so we we have to take at face
value to a certain extent what is being
said here but to another extent you can
always go and check yourself you can
always do the experiments yourself if
you were willing to try hard enough you
can certainly read about the results you
can watch people doing these experiments
you can see for yourself you can check
for yourself but there is no lie being
told here there's no fiction being told
here it simply is the case that there
are some
strange and unusual results that we're
about to discuss let's go back to the
book so we're discussing this quantum
game involving a photon
in kiara writes a source emits the
photon then the photon can travel
straight along the horizontal path or
along a vertical path
the photon and its path constitute an
information medium they can encode a bit
if the photon travels on the horizontal
path it encodes a zero
if it goes on the vertical path it
encodes a one it is possible to set up
the game by following the randomization
procedure i explained earlier but this
would not lead us to a quantum game for
example someone sets the photon to
travel vertically or horizontally
according to the output of a coin toss
again the chances are half for the
player to guess correctly which path the
photon is on as you can see this version
of the game is not different from the
marble because it does not use quantum
properties of the photon in any way we
need to explore some other kind of setup
using the quantum properties of the
photon what is the quantum stuff that a
photon can do while a marble cannot it
can be prepared in states that are
exclusively quantum in the sense that
they do not exist according to classical
physics but only under quantum physics
an example of these chiefly quantum
states which is relevant for the photon
in this example is what i shall call a
superposition of the horizontal and
vertical path in order to understand
what kind of state this is how it is
related to the states where the photon
is on a definite path and what
counterfactuals have to do with all this
we need to look at a definite experiment
where the photon is prepared in a
superposition of different states and
then certain measurements are performed
on the photon this will tell us how the
superposition is in a certain sense
similar to the state of the marble but
is fundamentally very different the
photon after having been emitted by a
source can be put into a superposition
of paths by guiding it through a special
kind of crystal which when interacting
with the photon causes it to split along
two paths horizontal and vertical as in
the figure if you were to guide a beam
of light made of lots of photons through
this crystal you would see
that the beam is split across the two
parts horizontal and vertical which is
why sometimes this crystal is called a
beam splitter but here i am talking
about a single photon not a beam of
light and what it means for it to be
split can be understood only with
quantum theory so what do we mean by the
photon being split across two different
parts in a quantum superposition well
one key aspect of the superposition is
that after passing through the crystal
the photon could be found with
probability of half on the horizontal
path and with probability of half on the
vertical path
when the photon is in a superposition of
different paths it is impossible to
predict with certainty which path it is
on its path location is unpredictable
experiments happening daily around the
globe in the quantum laboratories
confirm
this behavior to the highest precision
pausing there my reflection okay so on
this point about split now chiara here
is
avoiding the terminology of broader
quantum theory the way i would uh phrase
this if i was explaining this to to
someone is that of course the photon is
a quantum object and as a quantum object
it is made up of fungible instances
and so what a photon is is a multiversal
object such that
when it collides with a physical crystal
of the kind that chiara is describing or
it could be a half silvered mirror
whatever you want
half of the instances bounce off and go
vertically and half of the instances are
transmitted through the crystal and go
horizontally so this is what the
splitting is the splitting is the
differentiation of the instances why
does it happen because it's possible
that it could happen the laws of physics
say that this is what happens it's
almost kind of like when people ask or
if they do ask you know
why does an object in motion stay in
motion unless acted on by a force well
it just does there's no if there's no
force acting and there's no reason for
it to change its course of motion uh
this is one of wittgenstein's lines you
know my spade is turned i i you can't
explain it further this is just what the
laws of physics say
and so if you do have this possibility
this physical possibility of the photon
taking one path or the other then it can
indeed take both parts and it does
indeed take both parts in this
particular situation and it's testable
you can test the claim that it only
takes one path by doing the experiment
and if you have the hypothesis it must
only take one path well you will find
repeating the experiment that in fact it
takes both paths repeating the
experiment often enough so it
approximates what happens
in the multiverse okay but back to the
book
kyo writes does this mean then that when
the photon is in a path superposition
its properties are exhausted by saying
with what probability the photon is on
one path and with what probability is on
the other just like for the marble in
our classical example with two cups
no in reality the story is much more
subtle quantum superpositions are not
about probabilities the photon is not a
randomized bit even if in some instances
it can look like one the first
difference from a randomized bit such as
the marble is that no one can predict
with certainty which path the photon is
on even the person who prepared the
photon superposition cannot predict that
the unpredictability of the photon path
is absolute unlike in the case of
randomization pausing they're just my
reflection now the reason for this by
the way is because well as we're going
to get to everything about what the
experimenter is doing and what a person
who tries to make a measurement here is
subjective
and the reason that it's subjective is
because
you're in a particular universe with a
particular set of instances of the
photon copies of you are in the other
universes with the instances traveling
along the other path and so when you
make the measurement you will always
only ever detect if the photon
travelling along one of the two parts
you can't possibly detect it traveling
upon both parts even though it does even
though it does travel along both parts
it's in this superposition of traveling
along these paths but you will only
detect it along one of the paths because
of the differentiation of the universes
and kiara is just saying here this is
the way it is you know this is the way
it is
accept it she goes on to say quote the
person who prepared the photon knows all
the details about the situation yet
cannot predict where the photon is the
photon is in a quantum superposition of
two different paths when in that state
it does not have a definite position and
if you were to measure its position that
measurement would have an unpredictable
outcome
so the quantum unpredictability
associated with superpositions
does not come from the lack of
information about the preparation of the
photon just pausing that yet just so
just to emphasize that point the
real-life version of this experiment
requires preparation of the photon
preparation of the photon requires
something like the energy of the photon
to be tuned you need to know what the
frequency is and then you fire it in a
particular direction and given a
particular setup of the apparatus you
know these things again are physical
then upon encountering the crystal which
has a certain thickness which has
certain properties then it will cause
phase changes in the photon okay the way
in which the photon reacts to striking
the crystal to passing through or
bouncing off the crystal and even that
passing through and bouncing off is not
a simple process at all that is a
physical interaction when a photon
passes through something like a crystal
what's actually going on is the photon
is absorbed by the atoms of the crystal
and then re-emitted absorbed and
re-emitted absorbed and re-emitted this
process goes on it actually slows down
the travel time of any beam of light or
ray of light traveling through it
because the absorption and re-emission
of these photons takes time even though
the photons always only ever travel at
the speed of light the absorption
re-emission thing takes time so it slows
the photon down as it goes through the
crystal and this is by the way why you
need
this
second crystal as we're about to get to
in the full mark zendi interferometer so
the two photons that travel along these
two different parts actually travel
along exactly the same length paths
almost exactly the same length they're
out of phase by a certain amount and
because they're out of phase you get a
certain amount of interference which
always causes the photon to travel in
one direction and not the other again
say my multiverse series for the entire
explanation of this okay so i'm skipping
a little bit and i'm picking it up where
chiara writes quote the second
significant difference can be seen by
repeating the game after having played
it once for the marble you randomly put
the marble under one of the two cups by
tossing a coin as i said earlier then
you repeat the coin toss and according
to the coin value reposition the marble
under one of the cups the player has
still the same chance of guessing
correctly where the marble is one-half
indeed adding uncertainty to an already
uncertain situation can only make things
equally or more uncertain randomizing
once or twice or a hundred times leaves
the unpredictability the same repeating
the steps of the preparation does not
change the odds of guessing correctly
now look at what happens with the photon
to repeat the preparation of the quantum
superposition twice you need to let the
photon through the crystal twice
in a real experiment this can be done by
arranging a second crystal after the
first and by setting up a system of
mirrors so the photon would go through
the first crystal bounce off the mirror
and go through the second crystal when
traveling on both the vertical and
horizontal path which path will the
photon be on after encountering the
second crystal
if you think of each crystal as
randomizing the photon path judging from
the marble example you would expect the
photon to be found with probability of
half on one path and one half on the
other but this is not how it goes
the photon after encountering the second
crystal will invariably end up on the
same path as it was before the
horizontal one if you believe that the
crystal is simply randomizing the photon
path the fact we have uncovered seems to
imply something impossible that applying
the same randomizing procedure the
crystal twice produces something certain
not random
this conclusion cannot be true if it
were you could go to a casino and always
win simply by waiting for the dice to be
rolled twice or the cards to be shuffled
twice we've reached a contradiction as
always happens with contradictions
something in the assumptions has to give
the revelation here is the crystal is
not a randomizing operation even though
it looks like one at first the quantum
superposition created by the beam
splitter unlike coin tosses
dice throws and the like cannot be
described with probabilities only it is
something else
i first properly learnt about this
surprising fact during my doctoral
studies from arta eckert who in the
early days of his pioneering work on
quantum cryptography had to think hard
about how to explain to an incredulous
scientific community what was so special
about quantum systems as opposed to
simply randomized phenomena the
explanation for this counter-intuitive
phenomenon resides at the heart of
quantum theory
so much so
that this fact alone can be taken as a
signature of the photon being a genuine
quantum mechanical particle just pausing
there my reflection just to emphasize
this we can see on the screen
the picture here of
what what is in kiara's book actually of
the mark zendi interferometer and the
way in which she explains what's going
on is that it seems as though it seems
as though what the crystal is doing is
perfectly randomizing things after all
after all if you perform the experiment
one photon at a time
then you can't predict whether it's
going to go straight horizontally or up
vertically you just don't know you can
put detectors
after the crystal in both of those
places and sometimes it will go straight
through and sometimes it will go up
sometimes it's horizontal sometimes it's
vertical you don't know it just appears
to be completely and utterly random and
so putting a second crystal there
should be seemingly completely and
utterly random now for an explanation of
this and i don't want to go into it now
because it took me some 15 minutes to
explain it in the multiverse series but
you can find it if if you go to topcast
episode 23
on youtube in particular it's i've been
calling it chapter 10 it's chapter 11
chapter 11 the multiverse chapter 11 the
multiverse part 0 part 0 and in that
part 0 there if you skip to like the 42
minute mark and the 42 minute mark i go
i spend a
well a long time going into excruciating
detail about the mark zendi
interferometer
and the mechanics of what's going on
from one perspective that might give you
an insight into what exactly is going on
here now we're about to
have another perspective as well and
that other perspective is as chiara says
the assumption that it's simply
randomizing things that it simply is
purely random whether it goes
horizontal or goes vertical is not
quite right as chiara said and i'll say
it again and she says she she credits
art eckhart for this
quote what makes the photon so different
from the randomized marble in the
original game is that
once it has gone through the first
crystal once it has
another one of its physical properties
not the position or the path
is
perfectly
definite
the property is that of being in that
particular superposition of paths
what's more there is another
counterintuitive fact letting the photon
through the second beam splitter and
then measuring where it is is one way of
measuring that other property
that is measuring which superposition
the photon is in okay just say that
again because that's that's such a
subtle
point
so once the photon goes through the
first beam splitter in other words the
first half silvered mirror the first
crystal everything is not equal it
depends upon how you've set up the
experiment the crystal can have
different thicknesses the photon
can have different energies there are
physical properties here that you can
play with such that once that photon has
gone through that first part of the
apparatus once the photon has passed
through the crystal
there is something about it that is
perfectly definite
what is that something well as kiara's
calling it there it is this
superposition property it's in a
particular
superposition of paths
and the reason we say this is because
well in in my understanding anyway
it has a certain kind of phase
and the way i describe it in that other
episode
is that well in the wave theory of light
it's sort of vibrating upwards it's like
a crest as compared to a trough it could
be one or the other now there is a
quantum analog of this okay the more
precise way of explaining what this is
in quantum terms but you can still speak
of individual photons as having a
certain phase such that whether it's
gone horizontally or whether it's gone
vertically it's got this particular one
thing both of the copies share this one
thing
or the better way of saying it of
constructing this explanation is as
chiara has said there
the property being
in that particular superposition of
parts okay so it's in a superposition of
paths it could be many different ways
and many different kinds of
superpositions of paths you could have
if you change the energy of the photon
you'd have a different superposition of
paths if you change the thickness of the
crystal a different superposition of
paths but because you have a particular
energy and a particular thickness of a
crystal amongst other things amongst
other things the the distance between
for example the mirrors and the crystals
would also affect this superstition of
paths as far as i'm aware
one thing that's different and i keep
coming back to this
is that the apparatus is physical so the
crystal is physical and bouncing off the
front surface
is not symmetrical with
passing through the crystal
although you end up 50 50 in terms of
the proportion of
instances of the photon either going
vertically or horizontally the ones that
end up going horizontally have passed
through that crystal and that has
changed something about the photon call
it the phase if you like
whereas that kind of process has not
happened with the one that bounces off
and goes vertically
these two situations are not symmetrical
and therefore that comes to bear on what
happens
to the two instances when they recombine
at the second crystal causing them to
always go off in that horizontal
direction and the reason for this
is that
on recombination at the second crystal
the interference could be constructive
could be destructive there's different
kinds of interference and it happens to
be the case that the interference is
such
that these two instances recombine such
that the whole thing goes horizontally
again but the point here is if you're
interested in the
physical properties of what's going on
here the actual physics of what's
occurring
passing through and reflection
refraction and reflection if you like
are not perfectly the same kind of thing
and that's why
it's not completely randomized they
they're not the same kind of groups of
photons
whatever the case it has this
perfectly
definite
property
let's keep reading
kyra writes
that is why we see a definite outcome
after the second crystal a crystal
creates a definite path superposition
then another crystal and a subsequent
measurement of where the photon is
constitute jointly a measurement of
which superposition the photon is in the
outcome at the end is definite because
after the first crystal the photon is in
a definite path super position but it
does not have a definite path okay
pausing now my reflection again
so
once you've passed through
that first crystal
you have a definite path to position but
not a definite path not a definite path
because it's 50 50 it's it's you know
half of the instances are going
vertically and half of the instance are
being transmitted horizontally so not a
definite path but a definite path
superposition for more on this by the
way even more than what i've said david
wallace uh himself uh the
emergent multiverse guy actually
has a lecture online about the mark
zender interferometer
from
the multiverse perspective and so there
is yet more information from uh this way
of looking at things out there on the
internet it's hard to find but it is out
there okay so kiara goes on to own quote
so there are two properties of the
photon that play a role in the
experiment with beam splitters the
property which path call that p
and the property which path
superposition call that ps
counterfactuals come in at this
important point to explain the relation
between these two properties in the case
of quantum systems such as the photon if
it is possible to predict the value of p
horizontal or vertical with certainty it
is impossible to predict which path
superposition the photon is in and vice
versa
when the photon is predictably traveling
along a definite path np is sharp in the
sense the photon has a definite value of
its position the other property ps is
not sharp a measurement of ps yields an
unpredictable outcome but when the
photon has gone through the crystal once
the outcome of a path measurement
becomes unpredictable its position p is
not sharp anymore whereas the other
property ps has become sharp the outcome
of its measurement is predictable this
relation between the two properties p
and ps is based on counterfactuals and
as i shall now illustrate is at the
heart of the notorious boar
complementarity
displayed by quantum systems the fact
that different properties of quantum
systems such as energy and position or p
and ps cannot be simultaneously measured
to arbitrarily high accuracy pausing
there my quick reflection this is
one of the most challenging parts of
quantum theory
where there are many challenging things
to accept and some people just balk at
it and just say it violates common sense
so they refuse to believe it so let me
um try again and i think this is
something i've explained a few times
it's tricky you simply have to give up
certain assumptions like
for example we know that a car going
down the street
can in a common sense why it'd be said
to have
a velocity it's traveling at 60
kilometers per hour and it also has a
position it is directly outside of the
post office
so we can say these two things without
contradiction without violating our
common sense notions without seemingly
violating any law of physics the problem
is we are violating a law of physics if
we're going to
take things really really seriously
newtonian physics the way in which i
just described things or even
galileo's physics allows us to say
that the car has got this particular
velocity 60 kilometers per hour and this
particular position and we are just so
very used to speaking in that way
that
we think how could it possibly be
otherwise but in quantum physics it can
be otherwise not only can it be
otherwise it simply is otherwise
the observables the things like the
velocity the things like the position of
the car
cannot be known
with arbitrarily high accuracy
simultaneously
we can't both know exactly what the
position is and exactly what the
velocity is now
it's unproblematic for a car because the
car is so big but when we get down to
individual particles it becomes
significant the effect is significant
measurable noticeable important so we
simply cannot say of something like an
electron
it is precisely there
and traveling at this particular speed
now there are many ways of getting to
this truth one is due to the fact that
well if you
were to try and find out what the
position of an electron is at any
particular point
think about what finding out
really means
what finding out means is observing what
observing means
is
a physical process you've got to
interact with that electron
now you have to interact with the car
when you look at it
but looking at a car means shining a
light on it seeing where it is and the
light doesn't affect the car but in the
case of the electron if you want to know
where that electron is you're going to
fire a photon at it the photon is going
to collide with that electron so you
know where it is and that is going to
affect the electron and that photon can
only give you so much information once
that collision between the photon and
the electron has happened among other
things
this is just the way the universe
happens to be so
you simply have to just
get over the sense that you can know
these things simultaneously you can't
and that's that
that's the way in which we understand
the observations that we're making the
way in which we understand these strange
quantum effects
is precisely by speaking in this way
we cannot understand these we cannot
have perfect precision simultaneously of
these two things so you have to you have
to give up on this simultaneously
knowing these two things at the same
time
the rest of quantum physics only makes
sense if you do give that up but if you
if you refuse to give them up well
you're kind of in the position of
rejecting that the explanation of the
apparent motion of the sun across the
sky
is in fact not the motion of the sun
across the sky at all
but rather the rotation of the earth and
the earth revolving is the actual motion
that's going on causing the appearance
of the sun to move across the sky
so making the mental shift to a rotating
earth or revolving earth
to a situation where quantum physics
says of systems they do not have a speed
and a position
they have both and they're intimately
related they are tied together that's
what we're talking about that's the kind
of shift in your mind you need to make
and this is all related to the fact that
in quantum theory remember an object
let's be simple and just call it a
particle
well a particle is actually
a kind of complex thing
although it's fundamental that's one way
of talking about it it's not the case
that it's just one single photon as
we've said before and so when this thing
we call a photon which is not one single
thing encounters something like a
crystal as kiara's explained it ends up
being in this superposition of states
the superposition it is in
could be one of any number of possible
superpositions it depends upon the
physical properties of the crystal as
we've said but this this idea of this
single photon it's it's it's deep and
you can just keep exploring it and
indeed someone asked me uh recently
about well do particles really exist
after all isn't quantum field theory
deeper and in that theory the field is
the most fundamental thing not the
particles and well my response to that
is
particles still exist it's just that we
can understand them through these fields
we can always get a better deeper
understanding of what these things are
it's not like the greeks came up with
what atoms are these indivisible things
and then once they had decided what the
theory of atoms were we could never have
a deeper understanding well it turns out
we still have atoms it's just we
understand them more deeply we know that
they have nuclei and electrons and those
nuclei contain
particles of neutrons and protons and
indeed those protons and neutrons
contain particles within them as well
and so atoms become this
rich area of delving ever deeper into
our understanding of what this thing an
atom is the same is true of particles
we can call them
vibrations of the quantum field that's
fine we can call them an ensemble of
fungible instances okay these are all
different ways of coming out the same
idea our best understanding of what
these particles are at the moment these
entities that exist within quantum
theory are at the moment
and so because we get to these have a
deeper understandings our intuitions not
surprisingly get pushed around let's go
back to the book
cara rights what does all this tell us
of the information theoretic properties
of the photon the counterfactual
property i've just uncovered provides
the key to answering this question
in chapter 3 copyability emerged as one
of the characteristics of information
media
now you are about to discover that the
copying task is much more ubiquitous
than it may seem at first
it does not pertain to the world of
computers and digital machines only the
task of copying and that of measuring
anything physical are fundamentally the
same
an apparatus that measures a given
property is a system that when given an
input some system provides an output the
value of the relevant property of the
system as it really is a kitchen scale
is a familiar example of a measuring
apparatus that measures the mass of
things when given some amount of flour
for instance it gives an indication of
the mass of the flour if it is a perfect
scale when given an input of one
kilogram of flour it should give us a
reading exactly one kilogram on its
display when provided say 10 kilograms
of flour it should read 10 kilograms
exactly and so on the transformation
that the scale realizes has precisely
the same form as a copy operation
because it copies the value of the mass
given in input into the display of the
scale
you have just encountered a new
important fact a fundamental link
between different counterfactuals
things that can be copied can also be
measured and vice versa another example
of a measuring apparatus is the measurer
of the photon position it is a device
that when given in input a photon
traveling on the vertical or horizontal
path as in our earlier example can
display a message saying respectively
photon on the vertical path or photon on
the horizontal path once more this
apparatus copies the value of the path
horizontal or vertical from the photon
onto its display okay so pausing there
just to my reflection on this very brief
reflection
i found that a really cool result this
idea that copyability and measurability
are the same thing they're the same
property
and chiara says that properties that can
be copied
she's going to call observables now i'm
going to skip a significant part of the
book here and she talks about how well
in the example the p and the sp are not
simultaneously copyable and the reason
is because you can't measure them both
simultaneously well you cannot measure
them both
to arbitrarily high precision
simultaneously and i'm going to pick it
up where she writes here is an important
and fascinating conclusion quantum
systems have at least two observables
such as p and sp which are not copyable
jointly or not measurable jointly to the
same arbitrarily high accuracy it is a
counterfactual property to do with what
is impossible to perform on quantum
systems it also constitutes the crucial
difference between the classical
unpredictability of a coin toss and the
quantum unpredictability arising with
quantum superpositions as for the photon
path
is that all there is to quantum systems
and their counterfactual properties no
there's more
you need another counterfactual property
to capture quantum information media
this time about possibility you need
reversibility reversibility and physics
usually refers to the possibility of
reversing a transformation a
transformation is physically reversible
if whenever there is a way to perform it
performing it in the reverse direction
is also possible when you cross a bridge
from one side to the other you're
performing a reversible transformation
flipping a bit from zero to one is also
reversible but cooking an egg is not a
reversible transformation nor is
splatting the egg on the floor a photon
when it behaves in a quantum way must
have the counterfactual property that
all transformations allowed on it can be
reversed so if you apply for example the
crystal on the photon you should be able
to use the crystal in reverse so here is
the main conclusion of this discussion
a quantum information medium is a system
with the following counter factual
properties
number one it has at least two
information variables such as p and p s
that are impossible to copy
simultaneously to arbitrarily high
accuracy
non-copyability of information variables
two
it must be possible to reverse all the
transformations involving these
variables reversibility the smallest
unit of quantum information is a quantum
bit a qubit
photons electrons and other elementary
particles can all be used as qubits the
reason why perfect qubits are hard to
come by in everyday life and the
universal quantum computer is very hard
to realize in practice is that accurate
reversibility is extremely difficult to
achieve in practice while at the same
time preserving the other quantum
properties of the physical object in
question
quantum theory says that it is possible
but it arises only under carefully
controlled circumstances most photons
around us such as those emitted from the
sunlight do not undergo reversible
transformations when left to naturally
occurring conditions pausing there my
reflection yes so this is the problem of
decoherence
so we have the issue of
trying to ensure that the quantum
properties that are going to participate
in a particular computation are going to
be preserved over time without leaking
into the environment or
rather without the environment leaking
into our quantum computer and becoming
entangled with our quantum computer now
i'm skipping another substantial part of
the chapter here
and i'm picking it up where chiara is
about to talk about entanglement and its
relevance here
and she writes quote
entanglement is one of the most exotic
and powerful and misunderstood
properties of quantum systems
when its properties were fully
discovered it soon became clear that it
would revolutionize the way we
understand composite quantum systems
that is to say systems made of two or
more subparts
the concept was already known to the
pioneers of quantum theory schrodinger
is usually credited with introducing the
idea but the full potential of
entanglement based ideas was unleashed
in the early days of quantum computing
when that was first considered as a
resource for quantum computation the
physicist vladkovedral who in the 1990s
pioneered our most subtle measures of
entanglement often jokes about the
explosive development of the field
remarking that he managed to get an
academic job simply by working on the
foundations of this elusive and
fascinating quantum phenomenon
those were times when working on
fundamental and adventurous topics was
still encouraged in academia in the
current academic monoculture pursuing
transformative and risky projects is
sadly becoming harder and harder pause
there my reflection yes this is a modern
yet perennial problem now
in physics in particular but science
more broadly
that people become
career scientists what's wrong with
having a career in science absolutely
nothing
except
that in the
industry that is science today
at a university for example at a
research institute what you are rewarded
for is
doing research
publishing stuff
if you need to demonstrate that you are
a competent scientist according to your
boss
then what you might want to do is to
publish regularly and if you're not
publishing regularly then your boss
might start asking questions the
management the administrators what are
you doing with all that time you have
why are we giving you this money you're
not giving us any regular output we need
papers to be published in journals that
say the name of the university that
you're associated with that's us we need
to be promoted out there so that
students will sign up to our university
courses sounds all very cynical but it's
kind of the issue and so what happens in
that kind of culture
is you have people working on
small things incremental things they
don't take a risk to really challenge
the foundations let's say or physics and
to make huge breakthroughs because that
takes a lot of time you've really got to
sit down for ages and ages and ages and
you can't waste your time publishing on
small incremental things if you're
aiming at the big discoveries but how
many universities are going to employ
someone like that
how many research institutes are going
to find
interest in supporting someone like that
what they're interested in
is
public outreach a way of demonstrating
that look our university our physics
department gets published more often in
more journals than anyone else look at
how good our research department is
that's the metric this is the problem
with having such metrics ways of
determining who's a good researcher and
who's not a good researcher how else are
you going to objectively in scare quotes
assess
one physicist for example against
another physicist if not
how often they're publishing so this is
why kiara says working on adventurous
topics
topics which might very well fail
they're risky because they're risky they
might fail but if they succeed there's a
huge upside but universities may not
want to take risks industry may not want
to take risks and this can kind of put a
dampener on risk-taking and therefore
progress
that takes us far afield from the
chapter that's just a little hobbyhorse
of mine let's go back to the book kiara
writes quote entanglement arises when
you have two or more quantum entities
interacting for example two photons or
an electron and a photon the essential
feature of entangled quantum systems is
that the information one can gain by
jointly observing the systems is more
than the information obtained by
observing each system separately
this phenomenon is rather
counter-intuitive and removed from
everyday experience pausing there just
my reflection i would encourage you to
of course refer to the book and kiara
will go through uh an example to try and
help you understand what entanglement is
and the way i like to think about
entanglement myself is that you have
something kind of fundamental like a
particle but if it's entangled with
something else then the two particles
together
are acting as a single system you can't
think of them separately anymore they're
not separate entities they are a single
system of particles and the overall the
the the whole is greater than the sum of
the parts as we like to say an
entanglement is a form of that and as
kiara goes on to say later
for example with qubits if qubits are
entangled quote it is possible to
extract information globally acting on
both qubits but impossible to do locally
acting on each qubit separately this
fascinating fact is not just curious it
is actually practically useful for
instance if you wish to hide information
in the two qubits like in a safe it is
the base for entanglement based quantum
cryptography where entanglement is used
in order to transmit information
securely by exploiting the fact that by
looking only at the two qubits
individually it is not possible to guess
the joint state of the two qubits
pausing there
the entanglement is often used
to try and again mystify quantum theory
in all sorts of unfortunate ways people
will say things like it
violates the
speed of light restriction from
relativity this is not true this is what
einstein was referring to with spooky
action at a distance the fact is in
order to entangle particles that has to
be done locally and the measurement of
particles has to also be done locally
and so then if you end up comparing one
particle to another that are separated
by a huge distance and if you think the
information is traveling from one
particle to another fasten the speed of
light the only way you can try and
establish that this is going on is to
bring the two particles close enough
together to compare them again
and that always happens locally as well
david deutsch has written papers on this
that all of quantum physics is local in
other words when we say local does not
violate special relativity it doesn't
violate relativity um the the
prohibition on exceeding the speed of
light okay that doesn't happen there's
no transmission of information faster
than the speed of light entanglement
doesn't show that bell's inequality
doesn't show that none of these
purported ways of trying to get around
the speed of light using quantum
mechanical experiments
show that at all it's all local okay so
i'm skipping some more and i'll pick it
up towards the end of the chapter where
kiara writes quote with the physics of
counterfactuals features of quantum and
classical information media can be
expressed independently of the details
of quantum theory or classical physics
the copyability of specific properties
the impossibility of copying others and
reversibility are general features about
which we can talk without committing to
quantum theory explicitly they provide
profound connections between intuitively
very distant patches of the fabric of
reality such as photons electron spins
neutrons and other particles that would
otherwise look very different and yet
they all have the same set of
counterfactual properties the power of
the science of cannon cart is that it
expresses the essence of quantum systems
without ever committing to quantum
theory's full machinery made of specific
laws of motion as a whole
this is important in view of the fact
that as i mentioned quantum theory soon
may be superseded by a bit of theory my
bet is that even if quantum theory
eventually gets wiped away
the counterfactual information theoretic
structure we have explored in this
chapter will remain because it has
deeper foundations than quantum theory
itself
these are the features that will survive
the next revolution in physics at a
glance all around you things appear
superficially very diverse but when
looking for long enough and with the
right spirit of scientific discovery
while also asking good questions and
trying to play around with some bits
here and there sometimes we find a shiny
far-reaching connection between things
that seem diverse and unrelated and this
connection is based on a unifying
explanation of the distant phenomena in
question for example physics tells us
that a specific relation exists between
mass and energy between the finiteness
of the speed of light and the structure
of space time and as you have learned
between measurers and copiers
we have achieved yet another unification
with the science of canon cart quantum
and classical information turn out to be
two aspects of the same set of
information theoretic properties
quantum information media are a special
case of classical information media with
two additional properties reversibility
and the non-copyability of certain sets
of states quantum and classical media
are different but perfectly compatible
with each other
the fracture between the quantum and the
classical world the former supposedly
aloof and incomprehensible the latter
more friendly and intuitive has been
healed
realising a unification of this kind
goes together with abstracting away
irrelevant details making our
understanding more general and robust
than it was previously these are
promising features for a deeper
understanding of nature of which you and
i are exploring the most basic building
blocks once the edifice is built it will
be beautiful in its elegance and
simplicity and counterfactuals will be
the robust elements of its foundation
end quote that's the end of the chapter
so that's where i'll end the reading
today and i hope you agree with what i
said at the beginning there that this
chapter really was able to do what i
thought was such a difficult task
engaging the reader
about
quantum information quantum information
theory a highly esoteric part of the
sciences and if you've managed to
understand this you know pat yourself on
the back because
even if you understood a small amount of
this chapter you'll be in a rarefied
class of people who does understand this
because of the way that it's presented
here i think anyone can understand this
stuff but they need to get a hold of the
book good um good gift for someone
actually who's
who's showing an interest in science and
physics and wants a new way of
looking at the world and to have their
intuitions challenged about some
otherwise dry subjects especially this
particular one
until next time bye
[Music]
you